薛建明，男，博士，北京大学物理学院副教授，博士生导师，离子束物理与应用研究团队成员。1987年9月-1997年7月 北京大学技术物理系 学士、硕士、博士学位；1995年-1996年 Heidelberg物理化学所，联合培养博士，德国 Heidelberg 大学物理化学所，研究离子对材料表面改性原理；1998年9 月-1998年12月 德国重离子物理所（GSI），DAAD高级访问学者；1999年11月-2001年4月 日本京都大学工学院量子材料科学中心，从事极端条件下材料物性研究以及分子动力学技术对相关过程的模拟研究；2006年 德国重离子物理所(GSI)材料物理组从事单核纳米孔制备及其应用研究；目前在北京大学物理学院从事离子束物理及其在生物和纳米科学中应用的研究。《数据结构与算法》。1.离子与固体相互作用机制;2.材料的多尺度模拟技术;3. 基于纳米核孔的应用技术以及计算机模拟。个人论文□Current Rectification in Temperature-Responsive Single　Nanopores　，2010。□Modeling of radiation-induced bystander effect using Monte Carlo methods，, □Irradiation damage of uridine molecules with MeV heavy ions， □The selection and characterization of the mutants in bioflocculant bacteria C8 induced by 3 MeV helium ion irradiation， □Molecular dynamics simulations on the　ionic current through charged nanopores　　2009。□Nanofluidic diode generated by pH gradient inside track-etched conical nanopore，□Surface charge density of the track-etched nanopores in polyethylene terephthalate foils. ，□Surface modification of single track-etched nanopores with surfactant CTAB.，□Gating of single synthetic nanopores by proton-driven DNA molecular motors，□Electrolytic conduction properties of single conical nanopores，,, □Electric energy generation in single track-etched nanopores　，2008□A study of energy loss and straggling of MeV protons in Sl samples，, □Controllable etching of heavy ion tracks with organic solvent addition in etchant，, □Wet etching of GaN damaged by heavy ion irradiation，, □How the geometric conﬁguration and the surface charge distribution inﬂuence the onic current rectiﬁcation in nanopores　2007。□Asymmetric properties of ion transport in a charged conical nanopore.，Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys . 2007 May。□.Effect of MeV proton irradiation on bovine serum albumin molecule，, □Energy related germination and survival rates of water-imbibed Arabidopsis seeds irradiated with protons， □Study on hydrophilicity of polymer surfaces improved by plasma treatment，□A possible thermodynamic mechanism of craters formation on metal surfaces caused by intense pulsed ion beams，, □The corrosion properties of Al/Al2O3 multilayered coatings on CK45 steel deposited by IBAD，, □Transmission measurement based on STM observation to detect the penetration depth of low-energy heavy ions in botanic samples，, , 