郭安薪，哈尔滨工业大学土木工程学院教授，博士生导师。2001年于哈尔滨工业大学获博士学位；2003年从中国地震局工程力学研究所博士后出站；曾先后4次至香港理工大学从事合作研究。Journal of Sound and Vibration、Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Vibration等国际期刊审稿人。郭安薪主要从事地震工程、桥梁抗震和结构振动控制方面的研究工作。作为主持人，承担1项国家自然科学基金重大研究计划重点项目子课题和2项国家自然科学基金面上项目的研究工作；承担和参与多项国家科技支撑计划、国家863计划子课题、国家973计划课题、地震行业基金等项目的研究工作。发表论文40余篇，其中包括《Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics》、《Engineering Structure》等6篇SCI论文。获得教育部科技进步二等奖（排名第3）和国家科技进步二等奖（排名第8）各1项。教育部新世纪优秀人才计划获得者；国家优秀青年科学基金获得者；
桥梁结构抗震跨海桥梁风-浪-流多介质耦合作用高层建筑结构抗震结构被动、主动和智能控制Guo A.X., Cui L.L., Li H. Impact stiffness of the contact-element models for the pounding analysis of highway bridges: experimental evaluation. Journal of Earthquake Engineering, published online.(SCI)Guo A.X., Zhao Q.J., Li H. Experimental study of a higway bridge with shape memory alloy restrainers focusing on the mitigatioin of unseating and pounding. Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Vibration, 2012, 11(2):195-204 (SCI)Guo A.X., Li Z.J., Li H. Point-to-Surface Pounding of Highway Bridges with Deck Rotation Subjected to Bi-directional Earthquake Excitations. Journal of Earthquake Engineering, 2011, 15(2):274-302 (SCI).Guo A.X., Li Z.J., Li H. Experimental and analytical study on pounding reduction of base-isolated highway bridges using MR dampers. Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 2009, 38(11):1307-1333 (SCI)Guo A.X., Li H. Pounding reduction of highway bridge with pounding effect by using magnetorheological dampers under earthquake excitations. Advances in Structural Engineering. 2008.11(3):317-334. (SCI)Guo A.X., Xu Y.L., Li H. Dynamic characteristics of cable-stayed bridge tower with multi-stage pendulum mass damper under wind excitations during construction I: theory. Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Vibration, 2007,6(4) (SCI)Guo A.X., Xu Y.L., Li H. Dynamic characteristics of cable-stayed bridge tower with multi-stage pendulum mass damper under wind excitations during construction II: experiment. Earthquake Engineering and Engineering Vibration, 2007,6(4):64-69. (SCI)Xu Y.L., Guo A.X. Microvibration control of coupled high tech equipment- building system in vertical direction, International Journal of Solid and Structures. 2006,23:6521-6534. (SCI)Guo A.X., Xu Y.L. and Wu B. Seismic reliability analysis of hysteretic structure with viscoelastic dampers. Engineering Structures, 2002, 24: 373-383. (SCI)Guo A.X., LI Z.J., Li H. Experimental study of highway bridges with pounding effects subjected bi-directional earthquake excitations. The 14th World Conference on Earthquake Engineering, 2008, BeijingGuo A.X., Li Z.J. The pounding effect analysis of elevated bridge induced from earthquake motion with the explicit finite element method. The Proceeding of 4th China-Japan-US Symposium on Structural Control and Monitoring, 2006, HangzhouGuo A.X., Li Z.J., Li H. Semi-active control of highway bridge with pounding effect by using magnetorheological dampers under earthquake excitations, International Conference on Smart Materials and Nanotechnology in Engineering, 2007, HarbinGuo A.X., Li Z.J. and Li H. Pounding analysis of elevated bridges subjected to earthquake excitations by using explicit finite element method, the 100th Anniversary Earthquake Conference Commemorating the 1906 San Francisco Earthquake, 2006, San FranciscoGuo A.X., Cui L.L. and Li H. Semiactive Control of Structural Pounding of Elevated Bridge with MR Dampers under Earthquake Excitations, 4th World Conference on Structural Control and Monitoring, 2006, San DiegoGuo A.X., Cui L.L. and Li H. Structural control of seismically induced pounding of elevated bridges by using magnetorheological dampers, IABMAS'06, 2006, PortugalGuo A.X., Li Z.J., Li H. Pounding analysis of elevated bridges subjected to earthquake excitations by using explicit finite element method, International Conference on Bridge Engineering, 2006, Hong KongGuo A.X., Li Z.J., Li H. Bi-direction seismic control of semiconductor facilities with hybrid isolation platform by using MR dampers, The 4th International Conference on Earthquake Engineering, 2006, TaiwanGuo A.X., Li Z.J. and Li H. Pounding analysis method and control of highway bridges under seismic excitations, the 2nd International Conference on Structural Health Monitoring and Intelligent Infrastructure, 2005, ShenzhenGuo A.X., Li Z.J. and Li H. Damage research of steel tube concrete arch bridges. the 2nd International Conference on Structural Health Monitoring and Intelligent Infrastructure, 2005, ShenzhenGuo A.X., Xu Y.L. and Li H. Hybrid control of buildings under horizontal and vertical ground motion. SPIE Symposium on Smart Structures and Materials/NDE 2004, San Diego, CaliforniaGuo A.X., Xu Y.L. and Wang Y.B. Dynamic analysis of hybrid control platform for protecting buildings subject to traffic-induced ground motion. Proceedings of the 1st International Workshop on Advanced Smart Materials and Smart Structures Technology, 2004, HawaiiGuo A.X., Xu Y.L. Wind-induced vibration control of cable-stayed bridge towers using multi-stage pendulum mass damper. The 18th Australian Conference on the Mechanics of Structures & Materials, 2004, Perth, Western AustraliaGuo A.X., Li Z.J., Li H. The damage investigation of the western arch bridges of China. Third China-Japan-US Symposium on Structural Health Monitoring and Control and Fourth Chinese National Conference on Structural Control. 2004.10, Dalian, ChinaGuo A.X., Li H. Active control analysis of composite shallow shell coupled with discretely distributed piezoelectric actuator and sensor patches. ISSEYE-7, 2002, Tianjin, China.Guo A.X., Li H. An efficient method for establishing the rule-base of fuzzy controller and its application in adaptive fuzzy control of flexural beam with piezoelectric patches. International Conference on Advances & New Challenge in Earthquake Engineering Research, 2002，Harbin, China. 