杨世和  1963年8月出生于渐江宁波奉化，1987年北京大学毕业，现任镇海区区长助理和镇海经济开发区管委会党组书记和常务副主任。化学系教授，北京航空航天大学长江学者讲座教授，1988年毕业于Rice University。Research interests：Physical and Materials Chemistry; Energy Generation and Storage; Nano Science and Technology.(1) Low-dimensional ordered nanostructures. A number of chemical and physical approaches are being developed in our laboratory to create low-dimensional ordered nanostructures with controlled sizes, shapes, and surface functionalities. By using microscopic and spectroscopic techniques, we seek to build mechanistic pictures underpinning the growth processes of the nanostructures and explore and expand their utility in optoelectronics and biomedicine.(2) Carbon cage molecules and their internal/external chemistry. Fullerenes are unique in molecular science in that they support rich endohedral and exohedral chemistry, many of which are yet to be discovered. This uniqueness is gaining increasing significance after recognizing the ability of fullerenes to effectively relay electrons. We apply and discover synthetic strategies to understand and take advantage of the rich chemistry of fullerenes to design and build artificial systems for efficient energy conversion and signal transduction.(3) Energy generation and storage. The high surface to volume ratio and the tunable size effects of the unique nanostructures we are developing, together with the ability to assemble and surface functionalize the nanostructures, provide golden opportunities for designing the next generation solar cells and rechargeable lithium ion batteries with low cost, high efficiency, high stability and green impacts. In particular, we engineer hierarchical nano-architectures with suitable energy landscapes to enhance light harvest and to increase charge separation and transport.“From Nanorods to Atomically Thin Wires of Anatase TiO2: Nonhydrolytic Synthesis and Characterizations”, Chem. Eur. J. 16, 4381-4393 (2010).“In-Situ Fabrication of Inorganic Nanowire Arrays Grown from and Aligned on Metal Substrates”, Accounts of Chemical Research 42, 1617-1627 (2009).香港科技大学