郝越力  1962年7月生于天津 (Yueli Hao, male, born in July 1962 in Tianjin),南开大学环境科学与工程学院, 副教授,研究方向包括土壤和沉积物生物修复, 饮用水及环境消毒, 土壤有机碳回收, 环境友好材料及其生产的生物技术等，相关成果发表在多种中英文杂志。南开大学环境科学与工程学院, 副教授 (associate professor, College of Environmental Science and Engineering at Nankai University)工学学士和硕士, 理学博士, 工程及科学博士后 (Bachelor & Master in engineering, Ph.D. in science, Postdoctoral Research Fellow in engineering and science)环境生物技术、环境病毒学、环境科学和工程专业英语课程讲授 (teaching environmental biotechnology, environmental virology, and professional English for environmental sciences and engineering)环境生物学研究领域，包括土壤和沉积物生物修复, 饮用水及环境消毒, 土壤有机碳回收, 环境友好材料及其生产的生物技术, 以及环境分析生物学 (studies in environmental biology including bioremediation of soils and sediments, drinking water and environmental disinfection, sequestration of soil organic carbon, biotechnology of environmental-freindly materials and their production, and biology for environmental analysis)天津市南开区卫津路94号蒙民伟楼411室, 邮编300071 (Mengmingwei Building Room 411, Weijin South Road No.94, Nankai District, Tianjin, China 300071);理学博士, 美国俄亥俄州立大学环境科学综合学业计划 (Ph.D. from Environmental Science Program at The Ohio State University, America)，1994.9-1998.6工学硕士, 天津轻工业学院食品工程系工业发酵专业 (现为天津科技大学生物工程学院生物工程专业) (Master degree from Industrial Fermentation in the Department of Food Engineering at Tianjin Light Industry Institute, currently named as Bioengineering Department in the College of Bioengineering at Tianjin University of Science & Technology), 1984.9-1987.6工学学士, 天津轻工业学院食品工程系工业发酵专业 (Bachelor degree from Industrial Fermentation in the Department of Food Engineering at Tianjin Light Industry Institute), 1980.9-1984.7美国凯斯西部保留区大学地质科学系, 博士后 (postdoctoral research fellow, Department of Geological Science at Case Western Reserve University, America), 2001.11-2002.8美国俄亥俄州立大学自然资源学院, 博士后 (postdoctoral research fellow, School of Natural Resources at The Ohio State University, America), 1998.7-2001.6美国俄亥俄州立大学微生物系, 研究助理 (research assistant, Department of Microbiology at The Ohio State University, America), 1992.2-1994.8瑞典隆德大学应用微生物系, 访问学者 (visiting scientist, Department of Applied Microbiology at Lund University, Sweden), 1991.4-1992.1天津工业微生物研究所, 助理工程师 (assistant engineer, Industrial Microbial Research Institute in Tianjin), 1987.7-1991.3(Course Teaching)环境生物技术概论，本科生 (Overview to Environmental Biotechnology, undergraduate students)环境病毒学导论，硕士生 (Introduction to Environmental Virology, Master students)环境科学专业英语，硕士生 (Professional English for Environmental Science, Master students)环境工程专业英语，硕士生 (Professional English for Environmental Engineering, Master students)环境生物技术-原理与实例，博士生 (Environmental Biotechnology-Principles and Cases, Ph.D. students)(Research & Development)环境消毒: 采用家庭装置对自来水进行快速饮前消毒, 梅江直饮水厂工艺的消毒效果, 隐形眼镜消毒 (environmental disinfection: rapid right-before-drinking disinfection of tap water using household devices, disinfection efficiency of the processes in the Meijiang Waterwork for deep-treated tap water, disinfection of contact lenses)土壤和沉积物的生物修复: 水蚯蚓搅动对去除伊利湖底泥中联苯有机物的促进作用, 作物及种植方法对土壤有机碳回收的影响, 煤燃烧烟气脱硫废物及其它固体废物对酸矿土壤生物修复的促进作用, 亚硫酸钙及含亚硫酸钙的煤燃烧烟气脱硫废物对煤矿废物中硫铁矿微生物酸化的抑制, 土壤分离细菌对杀虫剂的降解 (bioremediation of soils and sediments: promotion of PAH removal from Lake Erie sediments through polychaeta bioturbation, effects of crops and cultivation methods on soil organic carbon sequestration, promotion of acidic mine spoil bioremediation by coal combustion flue gas desulfurization by-products and other solid by-products, inhibition of microbial acidification of iron sulfide minerals by calcium sulfite and coal combustion flue gas desulfurization by-products containing calcium sulfite, pesticide degradation by a bacterial isolate from soils)环境微生物的分析: 用分子生物学方法分析酸矿沉积物中的微生物群体, 用氧化还原染料分析细菌活性 (analysis of microorganisms in environments: biological analysis of microbial community in acidic mine drainage sediments, analysis of bacterial activities using redox dyes)环境友好产品及其生产的生物技术: 柠檬酸代谢对乳酸杆菌中芳香物质产生的促进作用, 采用米根霉菌进行小试与中试的L-型乳酸发酵, 谷氨酸高产菌的细胞融合 (biotechnology for environmental-friendly products and their production: promotion of flavor compounds production in Lactococcus lactis through citrate metabolism, lab-scale and pilot scale fermentation of L-lactic acid using Rhizopus oryzae, cell fusion of high yield glutamate production strains)相关论文 (Relevant Publications)Y. Hao. 2012. Discussion on significance of placement of optional course“Environmental Virology”for the graduate students majoring in environmental biology (为环境生物类专业研究生开设《环境病毒学》选修课的意义探析). Education Teaching Forum (教育教学论坛) 56:51-52. (in Chinese)Y.J. Zhu, Y. Hao. 2010. Rapid right-before-drinking disinfection of cup-quantity of drinking water with combination of household device of ozone and UV generator (臭氧紫外家庭装置联用对杯量饮用水的快速饮前消毒). J Safety Environment (安全与环境学报) 10:73-79. (in Chinese)H. Wang, H. Huang, Y. Hao. 2008. Comparison of several domestic products of activated carbon in virus adsorption in water (三种国产活性炭吸附去除水中病毒能力的比较). J Environment Health (环境与健康杂志) 25:611-615. (in Chinese)J. Xu, P. Wang, X. Zhong, S. Dai, H. Sun, Y. Hao. 2006. Comparison of PAH and nonylphenol uptake by carp (Cyprinus carpio) and semipermeable membrane devices (SPMDs) from water. Bull Environ Toxicol 77:211-218.Y. Hao, R. Lal, L.B. Owens, R.C. Izaurralde, W.M. Post, D.L. Hothem. 2002. Effect of cropland management and slope position on soil organic carbon pool at the North Appalachian Experimental Watersheds. Soil & Tillage Res 68:133-142.Y. Hao, W.A. Dick, O.H. Tuovinen. 2002. PCR amplification of 16S rDNA sequences in Fe-rich sediment of coal refuse drainage. Biotechnol Lett 24:1049-1053.Y. Hao, R. Lal, R.C. Izaurralde, J.C. Ritchie, L.B. Owens, D.L. Hothem. 2001. Historic assessment of agricultural impacts on soil organic carbon erosion in an Ohio watershed. Soil Sci 166:116-126.Y. Hao, R. Lal, L.B. Owens, R.C. Izaurralde. 2001. Soil organic carbon erosion assessment by cesium-137. p. 451-468. In: R.Lal, J.M. Kimble, R.F. Follett, and B.A.Stewart (eds.) Assessment Methods for Soil Carbon. CRC Press, New York.Y. Hao, W.A. Dick. 2000. Potential inhibition of acid formation in pyritic environments using calcium sulfite byproduct. Environ Sci Technol 34:2288-2292.W.A. Dick, R.C. Stehouwer, J.M. Bigham, W.E. Wolfe, Y. Hao, D. Adriano, J. Beeghly, R.J. Haefner. 2000. Beneficial uses of flue gas desulfurization by-products: examples and case studies of land application. P. 505-536. In: J.F. Power and W.A. Dick (eds.), Land Application of Agricultural, Industrial, and Municipal By-Products. Soil Science Society of America, Madison, WI.M. Portoles, Y. Hao, S. Wrobel, O.H. Tuovinen. 1996. Use of redox dyes for evaluation of bacterial attachment on RGP contact lenses. Abstracts, Anuual Meeting of the Contact Lens Association of Ophthalmologists (Las Vegas, NV).M. Radosevich, S.J. Traina, Y. Hao, O.H. Tuovinen. 1995. Degradation and mineralization of atrazine by a soil bacterial isolate. Appl Environ Microbiol 61:297-302.M. Radosevich, Y. Hao, D.M. Stamper, S.J. Traina, O.H. Tuovinen. 1993. Biodegradation of atrazine and alachlor in Ohio MSEA sediment samples: enrichment and pure reference culture experiments. Agricultural Research Conference on the Protection of Water Quality. Soil and Water Conservation Society (Ankenny, IA).M. Radosevich, Y. Hao, S.J. Traina, O.H. Tuovinen. 1993. The kinetics of atrazine degradation by a bacterial isolate in natural buried valley aquifer sediments. Abstract Q-119, Annual Meeting of the American Society for Microbiology (Atlanta, GA).Y. Hao. 1987. Study on formation, regeneration, and fusion of protoplasts of Cornybacterium beijing and Brevibacterium flavum (北京棒杆菌与黄色短杆菌原生质体的形成，再生及融合的探讨). Thesis for master degree in engineering, Tianjin Light Industry Institute (天津轻工业学院), Tianjin, China. (in Chinese)
 