方恒健，男，出生于1977年1月9日，硕士学位，是一名青年双簧管演奏家、双簧管专业副教授和中华文化促进会专家委员会成员。1995年考入。师从著名双簧管教育家教授学习双簧管专业，在校期间曾担任双簧管首席。1999年考入中国北京交响乐团，担任双簧管首席，成为北京交响乐团建团以来最年轻的首席。期间曾与多位国内外著名指挥家、演奏家合作，成功演出各类型音乐作品。2001年随团赴欧洲各国巡演，获得巨大成功。2005年进入任教，教授双簧管专业与室内乐课程。1995年考入。师从著名双簧管教育家教授学习双簧管专业，在校期间曾担任双簧管首席。1999年考入中国北京交响乐团，担任双簧管首席，成为北京交响乐团建团以来最年轻的首席。期间曾与多位国内外著名指挥家、演奏家合作，成功演出各类型音乐作品。2001年随团赴欧洲各国巡演，获得巨大成功。并于同年考取英国北方皇家音乐学院（RNCM），攻读双簧管专业硕士学位，并以优异的成绩获得全额奖学金。师从于英国著名双簧管演奏家、英国皇家利物浦爱乐首席Jonathan Small教授与欧洲室内乐团首席兼指挥，现任底特律交响乐团指挥的Douglas Boyd教授。在英学习期间，曾与世界著名双簧管演奏家，前首席双簧管演奏家Hansjorg Schellenberger同台演出，并赴德国、奥地利参加大师班的学习。2003年6月顺利获得英国北方皇家音乐学院授予的硕士学位，回国后继续在北京交响乐团任职。其间，在专业刊物《管乐艺苑》上发表《英国留学见闻》等文章。2005年进入任教，教授双簧管专业与室内乐课程。多次负责接待外国专家在学院的讲学活动，并担当全程翻译。任职期间，所教授的双簧管专业学生孙楚于2008年10月获第一届全国木管独奏比赛双簧管专业组优秀表演奖，2010年4月获室内乐比赛三等奖；2010年12月学生孙楚同时考取了英国伦敦皇家音乐学院与英国北方皇家音乐学院，并分别获得两所学院提供的奖学金。所教授的木管五组于2009年8月获第七届管乐室内乐重奏比赛木管五重奏优秀表演奖，同年11月获第七届中国音乐金钟奖木管五重奏比赛铜奖。第七届中国音乐金钟奖室内乐比赛是金钟奖第一次把室内乐这个项目引入到比赛当中，全国几乎所有音乐学院都派出学生和教师参加比赛，它也代表了目前国内室内乐发展的最高水平。2005年12月在中央民族大学及2006年1月在附中成功举办了独奏音乐会；2007年受邀参与录制《木管随想——七大木管演奏家专辑》CD唱片，该唱片由天天音像出版发行；2008年1月受邀参加第七届音乐节“圆灵飞动——作曲系教师作品音乐会”，首演作曲家陈岗的现代派作品——双簧管独奏《山歌》；2009年5月，受邀参加四川省音协管乐专业委员会成立十三周年大型音乐会，作为嘉宾演出；2010年6月与学生在演奏厅举办了独奏音乐会，获得好评；同年7月，由中国唱片公司出版发行了《方恒健与学生孙楚的双簧管现场音乐会》实况DVD，这是迄今为止正式出版发行的中国首张双簧管现场音乐会DVD。2010年11月，受邀参加“建院70周年校庆——巴洛克音乐会专场”演出，与巴洛克乐队合作表演的《F大调双簧管协奏曲》；2010年12月，应山西大学音乐学院之邀，在该院进行双簧管专业讲学，受到高度评价；2011年5月，应英国皇家音乐学院联合考级委员会邀请，作为特邀嘉宾演出；2011年6月，应山西音乐家协会与山西大学音乐学院共同邀请，在山西大学蓓森朵夫音乐厅成功举办“管韵恒远——方恒健双簧管师生音乐会”，并举办大师课。近期，方恒健的个人演奏CD专辑也即将由中国唱片总公司正式出版发行。 Young Oboist & Oboe Professor with Central Conservatory of MusicStudied oboe performance with Professor Mr. Wang Jingde at Sichuan Conservatory of Music; won the Excellent Performance Award in the teenagers’ category of National Wind Music Competition for Youth; admitted into the Attached School of Sichuan Conservatory of Music and won first place in wood wind music for 4 years in a row.Admitted into Central Conservatory of Music in 1995; studied oboe performance with the prestigious oboe educator Professor Baiyu, and acted as the chief oboist for China Youth Symphony Orchestra.Admitted into China Beijing Symphony Orchestra in 1999 and acted as chief oboist, becoming the youngest chief oboist ever since the symphony orchestra was established; collaborated with many prestigious western and Chinese conductors and performers, and successfully performed a variety of music pieces during this period of time.Toured Europe as a group member in 2001 and achieved great success; got admitted into Royal Northern College of Music in the same year to study for master’s degree in oboe with a full scholarship; studied with the prestigious British oboist and chief oboist of Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra professor Jonathan Small and chief oboist & conductor of Chamber Orchestra of Europe and current conductor of Detroit Symphony Orchestra Professor Douglas Boyd; awarded with a full scholarship for the second year by the College’s Board of Directors as an exceptional case after completing all his credits with flying colors thanks to his outstanding performance in his studies in oboe and positive contributions to the external exchange of the college; performed on the same stage with the prestigious oboist and former chief oboist of Berliner Phiharmoniker Mr. Hansjorg Schellenberger during his stay in the UK, and also went to study in the class of masters in Germany and Austria.Received his master’s degree granted by the Royal Northern College of Music in June 2003, and went back to China and proceeded to work in Beijing Symphony Orchestra; published My Life in the UK and other articles in the specialized periodical Wind Music during this period.Started to work as oboe teacher in Central Conservatory of Music in 2005, and taught chamber music part-time; competent and dutiful on his position with a strong sense of responsibility and excellent professional capability as a young lecturer; coached students to win the excellent performance award in the oboe category in the first National Wood Wind Music Solo Performance in October 2008; the wood wind quintet under his coach won the Third Grade Award in the seventh Chamber Music Ensemble Competition for the Central Conservatory of Music in August 2009, and the Bronze Award in the (first) Wood Wind Quintet Competition of the seventh China Music Golden Bell Awards; responsible for receiving foreign experts for lectures, and acted as interpreter for their lectures while teaching in the conservatory.Successfully held solo concerts in the Central University of Nationalities and the Attached Middle School of Central Conservatory of Music in December 2008; participated in the seventh music festival of Central Conservatory of Music “Flying Spirits – Teachers’ Works Concert for the Composition Department” upon invitation, giving a solo performance Folk Song for the first time which is a modernist work written by composer Chen Gang; participated in the Large-scale Concert for the thirteenth anniversary of the Wind Music Committee under the Music Association of Sichuan Province in May 2009, performing as a guest performer; held a solo concert with students in the Concert Hall of Central Conservatory of Music in June 2010, receiving high praise far and wide.Recorded a CD entitled Thoughts of Wood Wind – a Collection of the Seven Greatest Wind Music Performers of Central Conservatory of Music upon invitation in 2007; will soon have a CD album of his performances published by China Record Corporation.中央音乐学院中央音乐学院白宇中国青年交响乐团中央音乐学院中央音乐学院白宇中国青年交响乐团交响乐团柏林爱乐中央音乐学院中央音乐学院重奏中央音乐学院中央音乐学院中央音乐学院中央音乐学院中央音乐学院中央音乐学院巴赫