董云社
，男，汉族，1961年出生，研究员。1983年毕业于西北农业大学（现西北农林科技大学），分配到中国科学院地理研究所工作至今。2002年在德国美因茨大学获得环境地学专业博士学位。兼任国际SCI收录刊物“Journal of Arid Land”、“Chinese Science Bulletin”等多个中英文学术期刊编委；国家自然科学基金委员会专家评审组成员；中国环境科学学会理事；中国科学院新疆分院副院长等职务。
现任地理科学与资源研究所创新基地研究员、博士生导师、环境生物地球化学与健康研究室主任、所学术委员会委员、《地理研究》刊物编委；现为中国环境科学学会“环境地学专业委员会”副主任、国际地圈/生物圈计划中国全国委员会(CNC-IGBP)委员等。
1983.08-今 中国科学院地理科学与资源研究所（原中科院地理研究所）1983.09-1984.08 中国科学院南京土壤研究所学习1987.02-1988.03 澳大利亚堪培拉联邦科工组织土壤研究所访问学者1991.01-1992.07 德国美因兹马普化学所合作研究1994.05-1995.01 德国美因兹马普化学所合作研究1998.08-1998.11 德国美因兹马普化学所合作研究2000.05-2000.10 德国美因兹大学地理研究所合作研究1) Liangjie Sun, Yuchun Qi, Yunshe Dong*, Yating He, Qin Peng, Xinchao Liu, Junqiang Jia, Shu-fang Guo, Congcong Cao. Interactions of water and nitrogen a ddition on soil microbial community composition and functional diversity depending on the inter-annual precipitation in a Chinese steppe. Journal of Integrative Agriculture2) Yuchun Qi, Xinchao Liu, Yunshe Dong*, Qin Peng, Yating He, Liangjie Sun, Junqiang Jia, Congcong Cao. Differential responses of short-term soil respiration dynamics to the experimental addition of nitrogen and water in the temperate semi-arid steppe of Inner Mongolia, China. Journal of Environmental Sciences3) Xinchao Liu, Yuchun Qi, Yunshe Dong*, Qin Peng, Yating He, Liangjie Sun, Junqiang Jia, Congcong Cao. Response of soil N2O emissions to precipitation pulses under different nitrogen availabilities in a semiarid temperate steppe in Inner Mongolia4) Qin Peng, Yuchun Qi, Yunshe Dong*,Yating He, Shengsheng Xiao, Xinchao Liu, Liangjie Sun, Junqiang Jia, Shufang Guo, Congcong Cao. Decomposing litter and its C and N dynamics as affected by N additions in a semi-arid temperate steppe. Journal of Arid Land5) HE Yating, QI Yuchun, DONG Yunshe*, XIAO Shengsheng, Peng Qin, Liu Xinchao, Sun Liangjie. Effects of nitrogen fertilization on soil microbial biomass and community functional diversity in temperate grassland in Inner Mongolia, China. CLEAN-soil Air Water6) QI Yuchun, DONG Yunshe*, PENG Qin, XIAO Shengsheng, HE Yating, LIU Xinchao, SUN Liangjie, YANG Zhijie. Effects of a conversion from grassland to cropland on the different soil organic carbon fractions in Inner Mongolia, China. Journal of Geographical Science7) Qin Peng, Yuchun Qi, Yunshe Dong*, Shengsheng Xiao, Yating He. Soil nitrous oxide emissions from a typical semiarid temperate steppe in inner Mongolia: effects of mineral nitrogen fertilizer levels and forms. Plant and Soil8) Qin Peng, Yunshe Dong*, Yuchun Qi, Shengsheng Xiao, Yating He, Tao Ma. Effects of nitrogen fertilization on soil respiration in temperate grassland in Inner Mongolia, China. Environmental Earth Science9) Zhuang Li, Dong Yunshe*, Yin Feihu & Chen Yaning. Historical evolution and the effects of ecological management in Tarim Basin, China. Chinese Science Bulletin10) Qi Y C, Dong Y S*, Jin Z, et al. Spatial heterogeneity of soil nutrients and soil respiration in the desertified grasslands of Inner Mongolia, China. Pedosphere11) QI YuChun, DONG YunShe*, LIU LixXin, LIU XingRen1, PENG Qin, XIAO Sheng-Sheng & HE YaTing. Spatial-temporal variation in soil respiration and its controlling factors in three steppes of Stipa L. in Inner Mongolia, China. Sci China Ser D-Earth Sci12) Xing-Ren Liu, Yun-She Dong*, Yu-Chun Qi, Sheng-Gong Li. N2O flux from the native and grazed semi-arid steppes and their driving factors in Inner Mongolia, China. Nutrient Cycling in Agroecosystems13) DONG Yun-she*, QI Yu-chun, LIU Ji-yuan, Manfred Domroes, LIU Li-xin, GENG Yuan-bo, Liu Xing-ren, YANG Xiao-hong, LI Ming-feng. Emission characteristics of carbon dioxide in the semiarid Stipa grandis steppe in Inner Mongolia, China. Journal of Environmental Sciences14) DONG Yunshe*, QI Yuchun, LIU Jiyuan, GENG Yuanbo, Manfred Domroes, YANG Xiaohong & LIU Lixin. Variation characteristics of soil respiration fluxes in four types of grassland communities under different precipitation intensity. Chinese Science Bulletin15) DONG Yunshe*, QI Yuchun, LUO Ji, LIANG Tao, LUO Kunli, ZHANG Shen. The experimental study on N2O, CH4 fluxes from the dark coniferous forest zone soil of the Gongga Mountain, China. Science in China16) Y. Dong*, D. Sharffe, Qi Yuchun, Peng Gongbin. Nitrous oxide emissions from cultivated soils in the North China Plain17) Dong Yunshe*, ZHANG Shen, QI Yuchun, CHEN Zuozhong & GENG Yuanbo. Fluxes of CO2, N2O and CH4 from a typical temperate grassland in Inner Mongolia and its daily variation. Chinese Science Bulletin18) Dong Yunshe*, D. Scharffe, M. Domroes, Qi Yuchun, Peng Gongbin. N2O emissions from agricultural soils in the North China Plain: the effect of chemical nitrogen fertilizer and organic manure. Journal of Environmental Science19) Y. Dong, D. Scharffe, J. Lobert, P. Crutzen and E. Sanhueza. Fluxes of CO2, CH4 and N2O from a temperate forest soil: the effects of leaves and humus layers. Tellus20) E. Sanhueza, Y. Dong, D. Scharffe, J. Lobert and P.Crutzen. Carbon monoxide uptake by temperate forest soils: the effects of leaves and humus layers. Tellus
 中国科学院地理科学与资源研究所   