涂新斌，男，1971年10月出生于湖北省孝感市。中国科学院地质与地球物理研究所副研究员。1993年毕业于中国地质大学（武汉）地质系，取得学士学位；2001年在中国科学院地质研究所地质工程专业取得硕士学位；2005年在中国科学院地质与地球物理研究所地质工程专业取得博士学位。2005～2007年为中国科学院地质与地球物理研究所博士后；博士后出站后，聘为中国科学院地质与地球物理研究所副研究员。1993～1998年，在广东省佛山地质局工作，先后进行过1：5万区域地质调查填图和工程地质勘察工作。2001～2005年，参加中科院－香港大学合作项目“香港地区花岗岩风化土工程性质研究”，研究土体微－细观结构，利用分形维进行土水特征曲线和水力学参数描述的理论方法。2005～2007年博士后期间，研究黄土远距离滑坡的发育特征和形成机理。①滑坡灾害及其形成机理；②岩体风化、蚀变特征和发育机理及其工程地质影响研究；③边坡稳定分析与计算；④非饱和土研究。工程地质（1）香港地区花岗岩风化土工程性质研究；（2）向家坝坝址岩体囊状风化形成机理研究；（3）高速远程黄土滑坡形成机理研究；（4）土质滑坡的形成机理与预测预报；（5）湖南省常吉高速公路湘西段路堑边坡工程地质特征与防护；（6）湖南省黑麋峰抽水蓄能电站花岗岩中蚀变岩分布特征及成因研究；（7）河南五岳抽水蓄能电站蚀变岩专题研究；（8）入渗引起的黄土液化致发滑坡和崩塌机理研究。(1) Study on engineering properties of completely decomposed granite (CDG) in Hong Kong;(2) Study on weathering mechanism of cystiform rocks in dam site of Xiangjiaba Hydropower Station;(3) Causative mechanism of the loess/terrace landslides with a long runout distance;(4) Mechanism and distribution characteristics of altered granite in Heimifeng Pumped Storage Power Station in Hunan province;(5) Study on engineering geological properties of altered rocks in Wuyue Pumped Storage Power Station in Henan province;(6) Full-scale field testing of massive landslide in liquefiable loess to investigate the change in pore water pressure and collapse mechanisms triggered by water infiltration;(7) Principal Investigator: A comprehensive study of reservoir bank stability of the Xiluodu Hydropower Station, funded by China Three Gorges Group;(8) National Basic Research Program of China (973 Program): The formation, evolution mechanism and mitigation of loess geohazards and geohazard-chain.Xu L, Dai FC, Tu XB, Javed I, Woodard MJ, Jin YL, Tham LG., Occurrence of landsliding on slopes where flowsliding had previously occurred: An investigation in a loess platform, North-west ChinaTu X.B., Dai F.C., Pan Y.S., Dating faults and estimation of surface uplift and erosion rates in the northern margin of Dabie Mountains, China. Journal of Asian Earth SciencesTu Xinbin, Zhao Gaofeng, Dai Fuchu, Zhao Jian, Mechanism of rock avalanche induced by earthquake-Insight from the discontinuous numerical modeling approach, Proceeding of The 12th ISRM International Congress on Rock Mechanics, BeijingDai FC, Tu XB, Xu C, Gong QM, Yao X. Rock avalanches triggered by oblique-thrusting during the 12 May 2008 Ms 8.0 Wenchuan earthquake, China. GeomorphologyDai FC, Xu C, Yao X, Xu L, Tu XB, Gong QM. Spatial distribution of landslides triggered by the 2008 Ms 8.0 Wenchuan earthquake, China. Journal of Asian Earth SciencesXu L, Dai FC, Tham LG, Tu XB, Jin YL. Landslides in the Transitional Slopes between a Loess Platform and River Terrace, Northwest China. Environmental & Engineering Geoscience武彩霞，戴福初，闵弘，涂新斌，邝国麟，周跃峰．台塬塬顶裂缝对黄土斜坡水文响应的影响．吉林大学学报(地球科学版)曹琰波，戴福初，许冲，涂新斌，闵弘，崔芳鹏．唐家山滑坡变形运动机制的离散元模拟．岩石力学与工程学报许冲，戴福初，姚鑫，陈剑，涂新斌，曹琰波，肖建章．基于GIS的汶川地震滑坡灾害影响因子确定性系数分析．岩石力学与工程学报Xinbin Tu, Fuchu Dai, A.K.L Kwong, L.G. Tham, Ling Xu, Causes of Recurring Landslides in Loess Plateau, Shaanxi Province, China, Transactions, HKIE,Tu XB, Kwong AKL, Dai FC, Tham LG, Min H. Field monitoring of rainfall infiltration in a loess slope and analysis of failure mechanism of rainfall-induced landslides. Engineering Geology许领, 戴福初, 邝国麟, 谭国焕, 涂新斌, 台缘裂缝发育特征、成因机制及其对黄土滑坡的意义, 地质论评许领, 戴福初, 邝国麟, 谭国焕, 涂新斌,黄土滑坡典型工程地质问题分析, 岩土工程学报.涂新斌, 戴福初,土体一维传热方程解析解及热扩散系数测定, 岩土工程学报Tu XB, Dai FC, Lu XJ and Zhong HY. Toppling and stabilization of the intake slope for the Fengtan Hydropower Station enlargement project, Mid-South China. Engineering GeologyX.B. Tu, B. Jian, S.J. Wang, H.Y. Bian, J. Wang, S.G. Li, Swelling behavior induced by alteration in granite and its implications on underground excavation, Tunnelling and Underground Space Technology涂新斌, 王思敬, 岳中琦,风化花岗岩的破碎分形及其工程地质意义, 岩石力学与工程学报Tu Xinbin, Shang Yanjun and Wang Sijing, Fractal Properties of Pores Structure of Weathered Granite, Engineering Geology for Sustainable Development in Mountainous Areas, Proceedings of the 4th Asia Symposium on Engineering Geology and Environment, Free & AydinZ.Q. Yue, Y.J. Shang, R.L. Hu, X.B. Tu, Five test methods for porosity of completely decomposed granite in Hong Kong, Int. J. Rock Mech. Min. Sci., SINOROCK2004 Paper, 1B, 03.涂新斌, 王思敬,图像分析的颗粒形状参数描述, 岩土工程学报Fuzhang Yan, Xinbin Tu, Guangchen Li, The uplift mechanism of the rock masses around the Jiangya dam after reservoir inundation, China, Engineering GeologyYue Z.Q., Shang Y.J., Hu R.L., Tu X.B., Five test methods for porosity of completely decomposed granite in Hong Kong, Int. J. Rock Mech. Min. Sc
 