崔浩杰，男，博士，副研究员。2002年获安徽农业技术师范学院学士学位，2008年获华中农业大学农学博士学位（土壤化学专业）。2008年9月进入中科院城市环境研究所工作。2009年6月至2009年9月台湾大学博士后（合作导师：王明光教授）。先后主持和参加国家自然科学基金重大项目、面上项目、青年基金项目和厦门市科技计划项目等多项课题。在Journal of Materials Chemistry, Crystal Growth & Design, Catalysis Communications, Microporous and Mesoporous Materials, Journal of Soils Sediments, Journal of Hazardous Materials, Clays and Clay Minerals, 中国科学（D辑）等国内外期刊发表论文40余篇，其中SCI刊源论文36篇。2009年获湖北省优秀博士论文奖。姓 名: 崔浩杰性 别: 男职 称: 副研究员通讯地址: 厦门市集美大道1799号土水污染控制与修复、土壤化学与环境、环境材料等1.Hao-Jie Cui, Jie-Kui Cai, Huan Zhao, Baoling Yuan, Cuiling Ai, Ming-Lai Fu. Fabrication of magnetic porous Fe-Mn binary oxide nanowires with superior capability for removal of As(III) from water. Journal of Hazardous Materials2.Hao-Jie Cui, Jie-Kui Cai, Huan Zhao, Baoling Yuan, Cuiling Ai, Ming-Lai Fu. One step solvothermal synthesis of functional hybrid γ-Fe2O3/carbon hollow spheres with superior capacities for heavy metal removal. Journal of Colloid and Interface Science3.Hao-Jie Cui, Jie-Kui Cai, Jian-Wen Shi, Baoling Yuan, Cui-Ling Ai, Ming-Lai Fu. Fabrication of 3D porous Mn doped α-Fe2O3 nanostructures for removal of heavy metals from wastewater. RSC Advances4.Hao-Jie Cui, Jian-Wen Shi, Baoling Yuan, Ming-Lai Fu. Synthesis of porous magnetic ferrite nanowires containing Mn and their application in water treatment. Journal of Materials Chemistry A,5.Dong-Xing Xu, Zheng-Wei Lian, Ming-Lai Fu, Baoling Yuan, Jian-Wen Shi, Hao-Jie Cui. Advanced near-infrared-driven photocatalyst: Fabrication, characterization, and photocatalytic performance6.Peng Liang, Yi-Chun Li, Chan Zhang, Sheng-Chun Wu, Hao-Jie Cui, Shen Yu, Ming H, Wong. Effects of salinity and humic acid on the sorption of Hg on Fe and Mn hydroxides. Journal of Hazardous Materials7.Jian-Wen Shi, Hao-Jie Cui, Xu Zong, Shaohua Chen, Jinsheng Chen, Bin Xu, Weiya Yang, Lianzhou Wang, Ming-Lai Fu.Facile one-pot synthesis of Eu, N-codoped mesoporous titania microspheres with yolk-shell structure and high visible-light induced photocatalytic performance. Applied Catalysis A: General8.Hui Yin, Wenfeng Tan, Xionghan Feng, Lirong Zheng, Haojie Cui, Guohong Qiu, Fan Liu, Characterization of Ni-rich hexagonal birnessite and its geochemical effects on aqueous Pb2+/Zn2+ and As(III). Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta9.Hao-Jie Cui, Jian-Wen Shi, Fan Liu and Ming-Lai Fu. Large-scale preparation of hierarchical manganese oxide octahedral molecular sieves (OMS-1) nanoplate microspheres via a facile one-pot reflux method. Journal of Materials Chemistry10.Qiang Zhou, Ming-Lai Fu, Bao-Ling Yuan, Hao-Jie Cui and Jian-Wen Shi. Assembly, characterization, and photocatalytic activities of TiO2 nanotubes/CdS quantum dots nanocomposites. Journal of Nanoparticle Research11.Hao-Jie Cui, Hai-Zhen Huang, Ming-Lai Fu, Bao-Ling Yuan and William Pearl. Facile synthesis and catalytic properties of single crystalline β-MnO2 nanorods. Catalysis Communications12.Hao-Jie Cui, Ming Kuang Wang, Ming-Lai Fu and En Ci. Enhancing phosphorus availability in phosphorus-fertilized zones by reducing phosphate adsorbed on ferrihydrite using rice-straw derived biochar. Journal of Soils Sediments,13.Hao-Jie Cui, Ming-Lai Fu, Shen Yu and Ming-Kuang Wang. Reduction and removal of Cr(VI) from aqueous solutions using modified byproducts of beer production. Journal of Hazardous Materials,14.Mao-Zhong Zheng, Chao Cai, Ying Hu, Guo-Xin Sun, Paul N. Williams, Hao-Jie Cui, Gang Li, Fang-Jie Zhao and Yong-Guan Zhu. Spatial distribution and temporal variation of arsenic in rice. New Phytologist,15.Haojie Cui, Xionghan Feng, Wenfeng Tan, Wei Zhao, Ming Kuang Wang, Tou Ming Tsao and Fan Liu. Synthesis of a nanofibrous manganese oxide octahedral molecular sieve with Co(NH3)63+ complex ions as template via a reflux method. Crystal Growth & Design16.Haojie Cui, Fan Liu, Xionghan Feng, Wenfeng Tan and Ming Kuang Wang. Aging promotes todorokite formation from layered manganese oxide at near-surface conditions. Journal of Soils Sediments17.Haojie Cui, Guohong Qiu, Xionghan Feng, Wenfeng Tan and Fan Liu. Birnessites with different average manganese oxidation states synthesized, characterization, and transformed to todorokite at atmospheric pressure. Clays and Clay Minerals18.Haojie Cui, Xionghan Feng, Wenfeng Tan, Jizheng He, Ronggui Hu and Fan Liu. Synthesis of todorokite-type manganese oxide from Cu-buserite by controlling the pH at atmospheric pressure. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials19.Haojie Cui, Xiangwen Liu, Wenfeng Tan, Xionghan Feng, Fan Liu and Huada Daniel Ruan. Influence of Mn(III) availability on the phase transformation from layered buserite to tunnel-structured todorokite. Clays and Clay Minerals20.崔浩杰，冯雄汉，刘凡，谭文峰，贺纪正. 常压下影响钙锰矿形成几个因素的初步研究. 中国科学(D辑)表生环境中含重金属水钠锰矿与Mn(II)作用特性与机制 国家自然科学基金表生环境中水钠锰矿微结构特性对矿物转化的影响机制 国家自然科学基金
 