白宗庆是中科院山西煤化所的。研究的领域是，低阶煤利用。曾经在2008年度山西省科学技术奖自然科学类二等奖。姓 名: 白宗庆性 别: 男职 务:职 称: 学 历: 301组通讯地址: 太原市桃园南路27号2006.6 中科院山西煤化所获理学博士学2006.6-2010.12 中科院山西煤化所，2010.12- 中科院山西煤化所，，低阶煤利用2008年度山西省科学技术奖自然科学类二等奖1.Jiawei Kou, Zongqing Bai*, Wen Li, Jin Bai, Zhenxing Guo. Effects of mineral matters and hydrogen bonding on rheological behaviors of brown coal-oil slurries. Fuel2. Jingchong Yan, Zongqing Bai*, Jin Bai, Wen Li. Effects of organic solvent treatment on the chemical structure and pyrolysis reactivity of brown coal. Fuel3. Jiawei Kou, Zongqing Bai*, Wen Li, Jin Bai, Zhenxing Guo. Effects of aromatic solvents and temperature on rearrangement of hydrogen bonds in brown coals. Energy Fuels4. Zhenxing Guo, Zongqing Bai*, Jin Bai, Zhiqing Wang, Wen Li. Co-liquefaction of lignite and sawdust under syngas. Fuel Processing Technology5. Zhiqing Wang, Zongqing Bai*, Wen Li, Haokan Chen, Baoqing Li. Quantitative study on cross-linking reactions of oxygen groups during liquefaction of lignite by a new model system. Fuel Processing Technology,6. Zhiqing Wang, Zongqing Bai*, Wen Li, Haokan Chen, Baoqing Li. The pyridine vapor adsorption behavior and its influence on suppressing low-temperature cross-linking reactions during slow pyrolysis of lignite. Journal of Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis7. Jingchong Yan, Zongqing Bai*, Huiling Zhao, Jin Bai, Wen Li. Inappropriateness of the standard method in sulfur from analysis of char from coal pyrolysis. Energy Fuels8. Jiqing Huang, Zongqing Bai*, Zhenxing Guo, Wen Li, Jin Bai. Effects of chromium ion on sulfur removal during pyrolysis and hydropyrolysis of coal. Journal of Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis9. Z. Bai*, B. Li, W. Li, F. Liu, J. Yperman. Effect of low concentration of oxygen on the removal of stable sulfur in coal. Energy Sources, Part A Recovery, Utilization, and Environmental Effects10. Z. Bai*, W. Li, J. Bai, B. Li, H. Chen. Effects of textural properties and surface chemistry of activated carbon on its catalytic performance in methane decomposition for hydrogen production. Energy Sources, Part A Recovery, Utilization, and Environmental Effects国家自然科学基金1项，973子课题1项
副研究员煤化学化学副研究员助理研究员副研究员煤化学化学 