廖玉宏：男，1977年生，原籍湖南宁乡，理学博士，中科院广州地球化学研究所副研究员，研究方向为有机地球化学（石油天然气方向）。廖玉宏，。
2000年地质系获地质学，2006年广州地球化学研究所获博士学位，2005～2006年和2011年分别在加拿大卡尔加里大学地质地球物理系和美国佛罗里达州立大学高磁场国家实验室访问。先后获2005年度中科院院长奖，2012年度“涂光炽人才基金”资助。先后在SCI刊物发表文章9篇，其中6篇为第1作者，3篇为第2作者。主要在以下方面取得了研究成果：高-过成熟有机质的烃源对比指标体系研究、油藏的生物降解过程和机理研究、烃源岩的生烃潜力评价、生烃过程及烃源岩的生排烃机理。现主持国家自然科学基金面上项目1项，国家油气重大专项二级专题1项，委托项目1项，以及“涂光炽人才基金”项目1项，同时以骨干成员身份参与了多个项目的研究工作。Yuhong Liao, Yunxin Fang, Liangliang Wu, Ansong Geng, Chang Samuel Hsu, 2012. The characteristics of the biomarkers and δ13C of n-alkanes released from thermally altered solid bitumens at various maturities by catalytic hydropyrolysis. Organic GeochemistryYuhong Liao, Quan Shi, Hsu Samuel Chang, Pan Yinhua, Zhang Yahe, 2012. Distribution of acids and nitrogen-containing compounds in biodegraded oils of the Liaohe Basin by negative ion ESI FT-ICR MS. Organic GeochemistryYuhong Liao, Ansong Geng, Haiping Huang, 2009. The influence of biodegradation on resins and asphaltenes in the Liaohe Basin. Organic GeochemistryYuhong Liao, Ansong Geng, 2009. Stable carbon isotopic fractionation of individual n-alkanes accompanying primary migration: evidence from hydrocarbon generation-expulsion simulation of selected terrestrial source rocks. Applied GeochemistryYuhong Liao, Ansong Geng, Yongqiang Xiong, Dehan Liu, Jialan Lu, Jinzhong Liu, Haizu Zhang, Xinhua Geng, 2004. The influence of hydrocarbon expulsion on carbon isotopic compositions of individual n-alkanes in pyrolysates of selected terrestrial kerogens. Organic GeochemistryYuhong Liao, Steve Larter, Haiping Huang. The thermal alteration of Peace River tar sand bitumen under conditions to simulate steam drive. Fuel (In Press).Liangliang Wu, Yuhong Liao, Yunxin Fang, Ansong Geng. The study on the source of the oil seeps and bitumens in the Tianjingshan structure of the northern Longmen Mountain structure of Sichuan Basin, China. Marine and Petroleum Geology (In Press).Yunxin Fang, Yuhong Liao, Liangliang Wu, Ansong Geng, 2011. Oil–source correlation for the paleo-reservoir in the Majiang area and remnant reservoir in the Kaili area, South China. Journal of Asian Earth SciencesWu LiangLiang, Liao YuHong, Fang YunXin, Geng AnSong. The deference in biomarkers released by hydropyrolysis and by Soxhlet extraction from source rocks of different maturities. Chinese Science Bulletin生物降解过程中原油化学组成及分子结构变化的模拟实验研究，国家自然科学基金面上项目，76万固体有机质成份与同位素演化生烃动力学研究，国家科技重大专项“大型油气田及煤层气开发”之“盆地深层多种烃源岩演化分析与模拟技术”课题之二级专题联合勘探区块烃源岩生烃动力学研究。广州海洋地质调查局委托项目过成熟阶段热成熟作用对催化加氢热解释放的生物标志物的影响研究。中科院广州地球化学研究所“涂光炽人才基金项目”
副研究员 北京大学学士学位中科院 