罗孝俊，汉族，1972年6月出生于湖北潜江，中国科学院广州地球化学研究所副研究员。罗孝俊负责和参与了国家自然科学基金、广东省自然科学基金、中科院创新项目及科技部973项目等多项科研任务，在国内外学术刊物上发表论文40余篇。其中SCI论文31篇。 罗孝俊，副研究员。
1972年6月，汉族，湖北潜江。 中国科学院广州研究所副研究员。主要研究领域为毒害性有机污染物的。负责和参与了国家基金、广东省自然科学基金、创新项目及科技部973项目等多项科研任务，在国内外学术刊物上发表论文40余篇。其中SCI论文31篇。 研究的主要内容包括有毒害性有机污染的分析方法、有机污染物的时空分布、来源、迁移、转化、生物富集与放大规律等。环境有机地球化学1、 Luo XJ,* Zeng YH, Chen HS, Chen SJ, Wu JP, Mai BXian. Application of compound-specific stable carbon isotope analysis for the biotransformation and trophic dynamics of PBDEs in fish. Environment Pollution2、Zeng YH, Luo XJ,* Chen HS, Wu JP, Chen SJ, Mai BX. Using Compound-Specific Stable Carbon Isotope Analysis to Trace Metabolism and Trophic Transfer of PCBs and PBDEs in Fish from an e-Waste Site, South China. Environmental Science Technology3、Sun YX, Luo XJ*, Mo L, Zhang Q, Wu JP, Chen SJ, Zou FS, Mai BX. Brominated flame retardants in three terrestrial passerine birds from South China: Geographical pattern and implication for potential sources. Environmental Pollution4、Chen MY, Luo XY*, Zhang XL, He MJ, Chen SJ, Mai BX. Chlorinated paraffins in sediments from the Pearl River Delta, South China: spatial and temporal distributions and implication for processes. Environmental Science and Technology5、Yu LH, Luo XJ, * Wu JP, Liu LY, Song J, Sun QH, Zhang XL, Chen D, Mai BX. Biomagnification of higher brominated PBDE congeners in an urban terrestrial food web from North China based on a field observation of prey deliveries Environmental Science & Technology6、Zhang XL, Luo XJ, * Liu HY, YU LH, Chen SJ, Mai BX. 2011. Bioaccumulation of several brominated flame retardants and dechlorane plus in waterbirds from an e-waste recycling region in South China: associated with trophic level and diet sources. Environmental Science & Technology7、 Luo XJ, Zhang XL, Chen SJ, Mai BX. Free and bound polybrominated diphenyl ethers and tetrabromobisphenol A in freshwater sediments. Marine Pollution Bulletin8、He MJ, Luo XJ，* Yu LH, Zhang XL, Liu J, Chen SJ, Chen D, Mai BX. Tetrabromobisphenol-A and Hexabromocyclododecane in Birds from an E-Waste Region in South China: Influence of Diet on Diastereoisomer- and Enantiomer-Specific Distribution and Trophodynamics. Environmental Science & Technology9、Luo XJ, Chen SJ, Mai BX, Fu JM. Advances in the study of current-use non-PBDE brominated flame retardants and dechlorane plus in the environment and humans. Science China-Chemistry10、Wu JP, Zhang Y, Luo XJ, * Wang J, Chen SJ, Guan YT, Mai BX. Isomer-Specific Bioaccumulation and Trophic Transfer of Dechlorane Plus in the Freshwater Food Web from a Highly Contaminated Site, South China. Environmental Science & Technology11、XJ Luo, XL Zhang, J Liu, JP Wu, Y Luo, SJ Chen, BX Mai, ZY Yang. Persistent Halogenated Compounds in Waterbirds from an e-Waste Recycling Region in South China. Environment Science & Technology12. Luo XJ, Liu J, Luo Y, L ZhangX, Wu JP, Lin Z, Chen SJ, Mai BX, Yang ZY. Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in free-range domestic fowl from an e-waste recycling site in South China: levels, profiles and human dietary exposure. Environment International13、Zhang XL, Luo XJ, * Chen SJ, Mai BX. Spatial distribution and vertical profile of polybrominated diphenyl ethers, tetrabromobisphenol A, and decabromodiphenylethane in river sediment from an industrialized region of South China. Environmental Pollutio14. XJ Luo*, SJ Chen, HG Ni, M Yu, BX Mai. Tracing sewage pollution in the Pearl River Delta and its adjacent coastal area of South China Sea using linear alkylbenzenes (LABs). Marine Pollution Bulltin15. XJ Luo, M Yu, BX Mai, SJ Chen. Distribution and partition of polybrominated diphenyl ethers in surface water of the Pearl River Estuary, South China. Chinese Science Bulletin16. XJ Luo, SJ Chen, BX Mai, GY Sheng, JM Fu, EY Zeng. Distribution, source apportionment and transport of PAHs in sediments from the Pearl River Delta and the northern South China Sea. Archives of Environmental Contamination and Toxicology17. M Yu, XJ Luo*, SJ Chen BX Mai, EY Zeng. Organochlorine pesticides in the surface water and sediments of the Pearl River Estuary, South China. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry18. CH Xiang, XJ Luo*, SJ Chen, M Yu, BX. Mai, EY Zeng. Polybrominated diphenyl ethers in biota and sediments of the Pearl River Estuary, South China. Environmental Toxicology and Chemistry19. XJ Luo, SJ Chen, B.X Mai, QS Yang, G.Y Sheng, JM Fu. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in suspended particulate matter and sediments from the Pearl River Estuary and adjacent coastal areas, China. Environment Pollution20. XJ Luo, BX Mai, QS Yang, GY Sheng, JM Fu. Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and organchlorine pesticides in water columns from Pearl River and Macao harbor in the Pearl River Delta, south China. Marine Pollution Bulletin 
 地球化学生物地球化学自然科学中科院 