陈毅峰，生于1963年11月，博士生导师，副秘书长，中国鱼类学会秘书长。姓 名: 　陈毅峰性 别: 　男职 称: 　研究员学 历: 　研究生1963.11出生 博士生导师。主要从事鱼类学、系统学和生物地理学研究，先后主持或参加10多项国家、中国科学院以及农业部的科研项目，是中国科学院知识创新工程项目《A：青藏高原及其邻近地区动物区系及分布格局研究》(2000-2004)的首席科学家之一。坚持生物进化与地球演化同步的观点，在对青藏高原鱼类的分布格局及其演化过程的研究中，与其同事一起提出了青藏高原区在动物地理区划中是与古北区及东洋区有着同等地位的观点。近年来尤其注意从宏观生物学的角度来揭示青藏高原及全球气候变冷对我国淡水鱼类区域性分化的影响，研究不同区域鱼类区系之间的历史关联及其分异过程；并从适应性进化的角度探讨生物多样性的起源问题，通过高原鱼类物种分化在形态上和分子水平上的不同表现形式及其相关程度的，研究在青藏高原隆起过程中鱼类物种分化与形成的机制。已发现鱼类1个新属、5个新种和新亚种，曾获得中科院科学进步二等奖、自然科学三等奖以及甘肃省技术改进二等奖各1项。主编完成专著1部，参与完成3部，发表论文近40篇。目前是中华人民共和国濒危物种科学委员会、中国科学院分类区系学科发展专家委员会以及中国科学院国家生物标本馆网络建设专家委员会委员，中国海洋湖沼学会副秘书长，中国鱼类学会秘书长。鱼类学，系统学及生物地理学享受政府特殊津贴Hao Qiu, YiFeng Chen*. 2009. Age and growth of Schizothorax waltoni in the Yarlung Tsangpo River in Tibet, China. Ichthyological Research, online publicationYunzhi YAN, Yifeng CHEN*. 2009. Variations in reproductive strategies between one invasive population and two native populations of Pseudorasbora parva. Current Zoology,Feng Chen, Yifeng Chen*, Dekui He. 2008. Age and growth of Schizopygopsis younghusbandi younghusbandi in the Yarlung Zangbo River in Tibet, China. Environmental Biology of Fishes, online publicationXiuqi Li, Yifeng Chen*, Dekui He, Feng Chen. 2008. Otolith characteristics and age determination of an endemic Ptychobarbus dipogon (Regan, 1905) (Cyprinidae: Schizothoracinae) in the Yarlung Tsangpo River, Tibet. Environmental Biology of Fishes, online publicationXiuqi Li, Yifeng Chen*. 2008. Age structure, growth and mortality estimates of an endemic Ptychobarbus dipogon (Regan, 1905) (Cyprinidae: Schizothoracinae) in the Lhasa River, Tibet. Environmental Biology of Fishes, online publicationFuHua Hao, YiFeng Chen*. 2008. The reproductive traits of brown trout (Salmo trutta fario L.) from the Yadong River, Tibet. Environmental Biology of Fishes, online publicationYintao Jia, Yifeng Chen*. 2008. Otolith microstructure of Oxygymnocypris stewartii (Cypriniformes, Cyprinidae, Schizothoracinae) in the Lhasa River in Tibet, China. Environmental Biology of Fishes, online publicationJia YJ, Chen YF*, Xie SQ, et al. 2008. Physiological advantages may contribute to successful invasion of the exotic Cyprinus carpio into the Xingyun Lake, China. Environmental Biology of Fishes9.YAN Yunzhi, CHEN Yifeng*. 2007. Changes in the life history of Abbottina rivularis in Lake Fuxian. Journal of Fish BiologyHE DeKui, CHEN YiFeng*. 2007. Molecular phylogeny and biogeography of the highly specialized grade schizothoracine fishes (Teleostei: Cyprinidae) inferred from cytochrome b sequences. Chinese Science BulletinYongxia Chen and CHEN YiFeng*. 2007. Bibarba bibarba: A new genus and species of Vobitinae (Pisces: Cypriniformes: Cobitidae) from Guangxi Province (China). Zoologischer AnzeigerKun Li, Jing-long Yao, Yi-feng Chen*. 2006. Age and growth of an endemic Cyprinid fish, Spinibarbus yunnanensis, from Lake Fuxian, China. Journal of Freshwater EcologyHe D, Chen Y*. 2006. Biogeography and molecular phylogeny of the genus Schizothorax (Teleostei: Cyprinidae) in China inferred from cytochrome b sequences. Journal of BiogeographyYIFENG CHEN* and YONGXIA CHEN. 2005. Revision of the genus Niwaella in China (Pisces, Cobitidae), with description of two new species. Journal Natural History15.He Dekui, CHEN Yifeng*, CHEN Yiyu, CHEN Ziming. 2004. Molecular phylogeny of the specialized schizothoracine fishes (Teleostei: Cyprinidae), with their implications for the uplift of the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Chinese Science Bulletin, 
中国海洋湖沼学会分析 