男，生于1966年1月30日，博士，教授，博士生导师，中科院"百人计划"择优基金获得者。1987年毕业于成都理工大学水文系工程地质专业；1990年于中国科学院兰州寒区旱区环境工程研究所获地理学（极地冰川学）专业硕士学位；毕业后在该所任助理研究员从事极地雪冰化学和冰岩芯科学的研究。1992年应日本国科学技术厅邀请赴日本科学技术厅长岗雪冰防灾实验研究所作访问学者，随后作为日本文部省国费外国人奖学生入选UNISCO在日本名古屋大学设立的研究生特别课程。1996年于日本名古屋大学大气水圈科学研究所再次获硕士学位；1997年获日本科学振兴会特别研究员称号并得到科学振兴会全额资助在日本名古屋大学地球行星科学系攻读遥感与GIS方向博士学位。2000年3月获博士学位，同年9月被南京大学特聘为教授，2000年年底回国在南京大学国际地球系统科学研究所从事遥感与GIS及水文与水资源研究, 2001年3月取得博导资格。
2001年-2012年期间，曾在南京大学地球科学与工程学院、南京大学金陵学院教授本科生《资源遥感》、《遥感物理》及《地图学与GIS》课程，同时为南京大学地海学院、国际地球系统科学研究所硕士、博士生讲授《遥感与GIS应用前沿系列讲座》。从2009年起，每年为中国农科院硕士、博士研究生做《生态遥感》讲座。1.遥感与GIS全球变化研究:　大气圈、水圈、生物圈全球变化遥感与GIS应用研究;2.环境与灾害遥感研究: 针对大气圈、水圈、生物圈的环境与灾害的遥感分析、模型构建研究；3.地图学与地理信息系统研究：利用GIS区域建模、空间分析的技术，结合遥感定量反演手段开展水文、水资源及水环境在全球变化背景下的时空变化及灾害研究。研究员全球灾害研究室主任A: 目前在研项目情况：1、 国家自然科学基金面上项目“基于分布式水文模型的流域尺度土壤湿度遥感数据同化研究”，项目时限：2009-2012；2、 国家自然科学基金面上项目“基于TOPMODEL概念和新安江模型框架的陆面模式构建及与RIEMS区域气候模式的藕合研究”，项目时限：2011-2014;3、 国家重点基础发展计划（973），子课题“高亚洲流域雪冰-水文-生态集成模式与预测研究”，子课题负责人，项目时限：2011-2015；B: 已完成代表性项目情况：1、 国家重点基础研究发展规划项目“复杂自然环境时空定量信息获取与融合处理的理论与应用”第四课题“中国水圈环境关键与典型事件时空尺度定量遥感信息系统与应用示范”，课题负责人,项目时限：2002-2007；2、 海外杰出青年基金(B类)“遥感在长江陆面水文过程中的研究与应用”，中方合作负责人, 项目时限：2002-2005；3、 国家重点基础研究发展规划项目“北方干旱化与人类适应”第二课题“半干旱区地表生态和水文过程及其相互作用的研究”，子课题负责人, 项目时限：2006-2011；4、 中国科学院“百人计划”择优支持项目“遥感与GIS陆面过程、水文及全球变化研究”，项目负责人，项目时限：2006-2009；5、 国家气象局行业专项“面向TIGGE的集合预报关键应用技术研究”，，子课题负责人，项目时限：2007-2010；6、 国家气象局行业专项“基于多模式集合预报的交互式应用技术研究”，子课题负责人，项目时限7、 国家水体污染控制与治理科技重大专项“淮河流域综合管理平台构建子任务”，课题编号子课题负责人，项目时限8、 中国数字科技馆体验馆2007年二级子项目“中国数字科技馆3S技术体验馆”，课题编号：无，子课题负责人，课题时限1、一种高分辨率的全分布式水文模型TOPX的设计方法2、基于渗蓄一体化动态产流机制的分布式水文模型的设计方法3、基于蓄水容量曲线和TOPMODEL的流域水文模型的设计方法4、流域尺度土壤湿度遥感数据同化方法国家版权局，计算机软件著作权登记证书：1、基于渗蓄一体化动态产流机制的分布式水文模型系统软件2、分布式水文模型同化平台软件3、XXT半分布式降雨径流水文模型软件4、TOPX高分辨率全分布式水文模型软件代表性论文(标注“*”的作者为文章的通讯作者)：1. XU Jingwen, ZHANG Wanchang*, ZHENG Ziyan, CHEN Jing and JIAO Meiyan, 2012: Early flood warning for Linyi watershed by the GRAPES/XXT model using TIGGE data2. XuJingwen, Zhang Wanchang*, ZhengZiyan, et al., 2012: Establishment of a hybrid rainfall runoff model for use in the Noah LSM. Acta Meteor. Sinica3. Zhao Dengzhong and Zhang Wanchang*, 2012, Estimation of Daily Actual Evapotranspiration from MODIS with Limited Meteorological Data under a Clear Sky over the Weihe Basin, China. Journal of Hydrology, in publication.4. Jiongfeng Chen, Wanchang Zhang*, 2012, A Simplified Hydrological Model for Simulating Top Surface Soil Moisture Changes at Watershed Scale. Journal of Hydrology, in publication.5. ZhengZiyan, Zhang Wanchang*, XuJingwen, et al., 2012: Numeric Simulation and Evaluation of a New Hydrologic Model Integrated with GRAPES, Acta Meteor. Sinica6. ZHENG Ziyan，ZHANG Wanchang*，XU Jingwen, 2011，A trial of ensemble flood simulation experiment based upon TIGGE data with a coupled atmosphere-hydrology model.7. Yuanming Liu, Wanchang Zhang*, 2011, A model of caching geo-data sharing based on computer cluster technology8. PengkunXu, Wanchang Zhang*, 2011, Estimation of Terrestrial Water Storage and Ice Mass Changes from GRACE: A Review9. ZHENG Ziyan, ZHANG Wanchang* XU jingwen, YAN Zhongwei, LU Xuemei, 2011, Surface soil moisture simulation for typical torrential event with a modified Noah LSM coupling to NWP model, Atmospheric and Oceanic Science Letters10. ZHANG Wanchang* GaoYongnian, 2011, Topographic correction algorithm for remotely sensed data accounting for indirect irradiance, International Journal of Remote Sensing11. W. -C. Zhang*, J. Chen, K. Ogawa and Y. Yamaguchi, 2005. An approach to estimating evapotranspiration in the Urumqi River Basin, Tianshan, China, by means of remote sensing and a geographical information system technique. Hydrological Processes12. JunfengJi, Jun Chen*, Li Jin, Wanchang Zhang, William Balsam, Huayu Lu, 2004. Relating magnetic susceptibility (MS) to the simulated Thematic Mapper (TM) bands of the Chinese loess: the application of TM image for soil MS mapping on Loess Plateau. Journal of Geographic Research13. W. -C. Zhang*, Y. Yamaguchi and K. Ogawa, 2001. Evaluation of the effect of pre-processing of the remotely sensed data on the actual evapotranspiration, surface soil moisture mapping by an approach using Landsat TM, DEM and meteorological data. Geocarto International.14. W. -C. Zhang*, Y. S. Zhang, K. Ogawa and Y. Yamaguchi, 1999. Observation and estimation of daily actual evapotranspiration and evaporation on a glacierized watershed at the Headwater of Urumqi River, Tianshan, China. Int. J. Hydrol. Processes15. W. -C. Zhang*, J. K. Han, Z. C. Xie, X. J. Wang, L. Albert and K. Goto-Azuma. 1993. A preliminary study of ice texture and fabric on an ice core to the bedrock extracted from Glacier No.1 at the headwater of Urumqi River, Tianshan, China. Bulletin of Glacier Research16. Liu Yonghe, Zhang Wanchang*, Shao Yuehong, 2011, A comparison of four distributions of precipitation amounts used in stochastic daily precipitation models, Advances in Atmospheric Science17. YongnianGao, Wanchang Zhang*. LULC Classification and Topographic Correction of ETM+ Imagery in the Yangjia River Basin: the Influence of DEM Resolution18. Y.-H. Liu, W.-C. Zhang* and J.-W. Xu, Another fast and simple DEM depression-filling algorithm based on priority queue structure, Atmos. Oceanic Sci. Lett19. Y.-H. Liu, W.-C. Zhang*, Y.-H. Shao and J. –Y. Zhang, A Comparison of Several 5-Minute Radar-Rainfall Estimation Models. Atmos. Oceanic Sci. Lett.20. YongnianGao, Wanchang Zhang*. A simple empirical topographic correction method for ETM+ imagery. International Journal of Remote Sensing21. XuJingwen, Zhang Wanchang*, Sun Chengwu, FU Congbin. 2009，An Efficient Method on Deriving Topographic Index from DEM for Land Surface Hydrological Model TOPMODEL Simulation. Acta Meteorologica Sinica.22. Hongming He*, Jie Zhou, Yongjao Wu, Wanchang Zhang, XiupingXie. 2008. Modelling the Response of Surface Water Quality to the Urbanization in Xian, China, Journal of Environmental Management, 86(2008): 731-749. doi:10.1016/j.jenvman23. Hongming He*, Jie Zhou, Yongjao Wu, Wanchang Zhang, XiupingXie. 2008. Modeling the Interaction of Urbanization and Surface Water Quality Environment. Environmental Forensics24. Hongming He*, Jie Zhou, Wanchang Zhang*. 2008. Modelling the impacts of environmental changes on hydrological regimes in the Heihe River Watershed, China. Global and Planetary25. Yong, B., Zhang, W.-C*.,Niu G. Y., etal., 2008, Spatial statistical properties and scale transform analyses on the topgraphic index derived from DEMs in China. Computer & Geosciences26. W. C. Zhang* S. Zhong and S. Y. Hu, 2008, Spatial Scale Transferring Study on Leaf Area Index Derived by Remote Sensing in the Heihe River Basin. 《Acta Ecologica Sinica》27. Hongming He*, Jie Zhou, Yongjao Wu, Wanchang Zhang, XiupingXie. 2007. Estimating water quality pollution impacts Based on Economic Loss Models in Urbanization process in Xi' an, China. Journal of Urban Planning and Development28. 张万昌*，韩建康. 南极洲乔治王岛柯林斯冰帽小冰穹顶冰芯数学模式初步断代, 《南极研究》29. 张万昌*, 高永年. 区域土壤植被系统蒸散发二源遥感估算. 《地理科学》30. 张万昌*, 刘三超, 赵登忠, 蒋建军, 2004, 基于GIS技术的黑河流域地表通量及蒸散发遥感反演, 《海洋科学进展》, 第22卷增刊31. 高永年, 张万昌*. 遥感影像地形校正物理模型的简化与改进. 《测绘学报》32. 雍斌,任立良,陈喜,张运,张万昌,符淙斌,牛国跃, 2009，大尺度水文模型TOPX构建及其与区域环境系统集成模式RIEMS的耦合. 《地球物理学报》33. 邵月红, 张万昌*. 统计权重矩阵法在多普勒雷达估测降水集成分析中的应用. 《水科学进展》.34. 邵月红, 张万昌*, 刘永和. 2009, 沂沭河流域不同多普勒雷达降水量估算方法的效果评估. 《大气科学》35. 雍斌, 张万昌*, 符淙斌, 2007, 用于区域气候模式的地形指数空间尺度转换效果分析. 《自然科学进展》36. 陈艳华, 张万昌*, 雍斌, 2007, 基于分类知识利用神经网络反演叶面积指数.《生态学报》37. 徐精文, 张万昌*, 符淙斌. 2007, 适用于大尺度水文气候模式的DEM洼地填充和平坦区处理的新方法. 《水利学报》38. 黄清华, 张万昌*, 2004, SWAT分布式水文模型在黑河干流山区流域的改进及应用, 《南京林业大学学报》自然科学版, 第28卷第2期, 该文章获2008年度《南京林业大学学报》创刊50周年优秀论文奖，是该杂志自创刊以来引用率Top 10中占第二的文章。代表性国际会议论文(标注“*”的作者为文章的通讯作者)：1. XuJingwen, Zhang Wanchang*, Wang Changquan, Zhu Xue Mei and Chen Jiongfeng, Development of a distributed agriculture drought prediction model based on TOPMODEL and GIS, Proc. SPIE2. XuJingwen, Zhang Wanchang*, Wang Changquan, Zhu ZhengZiyan and Chen Jiongfeng, Development of a soil moisture prediction model based on Xinanjiang Model and GIS, Proc. SPIE.3. Shao Yuehong, Zhang Wanchang*, Analysis of quantitative precipitation estimation with different methods by using doppler radar data. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing4. Shao Yuehong, Zhang Wanchang*, Application of back-propagation neural network to estimate precipitation with doppler radar in Yishuhe watershed of China. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing5. XuJinwen, Zhang Wanchang*, A new method of obtaining surface runoff parameters of SIMTOP from DEM. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing6. Zhang Wanchang*, Jiongfeng Chen, Distributed hydrological model with new soil water parameterization for integrating remotely sensed soil moisture at watershed scale. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing7. Jiongfeng Chen, Zhang Wanchang*, Soil moisture mapping in typical semi-arid regions of China by using ENVISAT ASAR data. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing8. Jiongfeng Chen, Zhang Wanchang*, 2008, Spatial variability of surface soil moisture in semi-arid region of northern China. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing9. Bi Xuemei, Zhang Wanchang*, Long term analyses on spatial and temporal evaluation of snow covers in northern china by using RS and meteorological data. International Workshop on Geo-science and Remote Sensing10. L. H. Cui , W. C. Zhang*, S. J. Xu, 2008, The WebGIS Based Jiangsu Oilfield Management System Implemented with a Spatio-temporal Data Model. The International Archives of the Photogrammetry, Remote Sensing and Spatial Information Sciences11. YongnianGao, Wanchang Zhang*. Variable Empirical Coefficient Algorithm for Removal of Topographic Effects on Remotely Sensed Data from Rugged Terrain. Proceeding of IEEE International Geosciences and Remote Sensing Symposium12. YongnianGao, Wanchang Zhang*, Jing Wang and Chuansheng Liu. LULC Classification of Landsat -7 ETM+ Image from Rugged Terrain Using TC, CA and SOFM Neural Network. Proceeding of IEEE International Geosciences and Remote Sensing Symposium13. Chuansheng Liu, Wanchang Zhang*, Dengzhong Zhao and YongnianGao. Remotely-sensed Evapotranspiration of Typical Oasis in the Southern Edge of Tarim Basin and Its Relationship to Land Cover Changes. Proceeding of IEEE International Geosciences and Remote Sensing Symposium14. Xuemei Bi, Wanchang Zhang* and Hongchang Hu, 2007, The spatial-temporal evaluation and valiability study on aridity of Northern China using ESDA, Geoinformatics 2007: Geospatial Information Science, edited by Jingming Chen, YingxiaPu, Proc. of SPIE15. Zhang Wanchang*, Chen Yanhua and Hu Shaoying, 2007, Retrieving Leaf Area Index in the Heihe and the Hanjiang River Basins Using Landsat Images for Accuracy Evaluation on MODIS LAI Product. IGARSS: 2007 IEEE INTERNATIONAL GEOSCIENCE AND REMOTE SENSING SYMPOSIUM16. Wanchang Zhang*, Yefei Zhu, Shijin Xu. Mono-window Algorithm for Retrieval of Land Surface Net Long-wave Radiation in Mountainous Area. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium17. Bin Yong; Wanchang Zhang*; Dengzhong Zhao, A study on the spatial scaling properties of topographic index for China, Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium18. Bin Yong; Wanchang Zhang*; Chuansheng Liu, A two-parameter exponential function approach to simply and accurately characterize spatial regime of topographic index for land-surface parameterizations, Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium19. XuJingwen, Zhang Wanchang*, 2007, A Novel method for Filling the Depressions in Massive DEM Data, Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium20. Chen Jiongfeng, Zhang Wanchang*, 2007, Closely Coupling Genetic Algorithm with Pareto Preference Ordering for Conceptual Hydrological Model Calibration, IGARSS2007, Barcelona21. Chen Jiongfeng, Zhang Wanchang*, 2007, Simplified Method in Parameter Optimization Based on Model Hierarchy Analysis: Application of Genetic Algorithm for Xinanjiang Model Calibration, IGARSS2007, Barcelona, Spain,22. Chuansheng Liu; Wanchang Zhang*; Bin Yong, Using lacunarity index and wavelet analysis to characterize scale-dependent landscape heterogeneity of Hotan Oasis in China, Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium23. Dengzhong Zhao, Wanchang Zhang*, Chuansheng Liu, 2007. A Modified S-SEBI Algorithm to Estimate Evapotranspiration Using Landsat ETM+ Image and Meteorological Data over the Hanjiang Basin, China. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium24. Dengzhong Zhao, Wanchang Zhang*, Xu Shijin, 2007. A Neural Network Algorithm to Retrieve Near-surface Air Temperature from Landsat ETM+ Imagery over the Hanjiang River Basin, China. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium25. Dengzhong Zhao, Wanchang Zhang*, Bin Yong, 2007. Analysis of thermal environment and urban heat island using remotely sensed imagery over the north and south slope of the Qinling Mountain, China. Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium26. D. Zhang, W. -C Zhang*. 2006. Distributed Hydrological Modeling Study with the Dynamic Water Yielding Mechanism and RS/GIS techniques. Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology VIII, edited by Manfred Owe, Guido D”Urso, Christopher M. U. Neale, Ben T. Gouweleeuw, Proc. of SPIE27. W. -C Zhang*, D. Zhang, C. Fu. 2006. The modification and application of basin evapotranspiration simulation module in AVSWAT2000 distributed hydrological model. Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology VIII, edited by Manfred Owe, Guido D”Urso, Christopher M. U. Neale, Ben T. Gouweleeuw, Proc. of SPIE28. W. -C. Zhang*, J. Han, D. Zhao. 2006. Rainfall runoff simulations based on improved TOPMODEL to a meso-scale mountainous catchment over Heihe River Basin, northwestern China. Remote Sensing for Agriculture, Ecosystems, and Hydrology VIII, edited by Manfred Owe, Guido D”Urso, Christopher M. U. Neale, Ben T. Gouweleeuw, Proc. of SPIE29. HongchunPeng*, Haiying Li, Xin Li, Wanchang Zhang, Yanhua Chen. 2006. Mapping LAI Using BRDF Model in Arid and Semi-arid Northwestern China. Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical Engineering, v 6366, Remote Sensing for Environmental Monitoring, GIS Applications, and Geology30. Zhang Wanchang*, Wu Li, Zhou Jie, Qin Zhihao, Zhang Dong, 2005, Quantitative hill-slope stability assessment with a remote sensing and GIS based distributed modeling scheme. International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS), V4, 25th Anniversary IGARSS 2005: IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium,31. Zhang Wanchang*, Zhu Yefei, Qin Zhihao, Fu Chongbin, 2005, Auto-retrieval of surface reflectance and albedo from landsat TM/+ETM over rugged terrain with an advanced atmospheric correction algorithm. International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS), V6, 25th Anniversary IGARSS 2005: IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium32. Zhang Wanchang*, Liu Sanchao, Fu Congbing, Yan Xiaodong, 2005, An approach for surface fluxes estimations over heterogeneous terrain by means of remotely sensed data and DEM. International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS), V2, 25th Anniversary IGARSS 2005: IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium33. Zhang Wanchang*, Fu Congbin, Yan Xiaodong, 2005, Automatic watershed delineation for a complicated terrain in the Heihe River basin, Northwestern China. International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS), V4, 25th Anniversary IGARSS 2005: IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium, p34. Zhao Dengzhong, Zhang Wanchang*. 2005, Rainfall-runoff simulation using the VIC-3L model over the Heihe river mountainous basin, China. International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium (IGARSS)Anniversary IGARSS 2005: IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing Symposium35. W. -C. Zhang*, Y. Yamaguchi and K. Ogawa, 1999. An approach for mapping the actual evapotranspiration, surface soil moisture content by using Landsat TM, DEM and meteorological data: I. Pre-processing of the image data for its application in the Urumqi River Basin, Tianshan, China. Proceedings of the 13th Conference and Workshop on Geologic application of Remote Sensing. Vancouver, British Columbia36. W. -C. Zhang*, K. Ogawa and Y. Yamaguchi, 1999. An approach for mapping the actual evapotranspiration, surface soil moisture content by using Landsat TM, DEM and meteorological data: II. Application to the Urumqi River Basin, Tianshan, China. Proceedings of the 13th Conference and Workshop on Geologic application of Remote Sensing. Vancouver, British Columbia37. W. -C. Zhang*, K. Ogawa, B. –S. Ye and Y. Yamaguchi. 1999. A semi-distributed monthly stream-flow model for a glacierized watershed by remote sensing and GIS. Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Geospatial Information in Agriculture and Forestry. Florida38. W. -C. Zhang*, Nakawo, M., K. Azuma and Jiankang Han. 1995. Ice core analysis for reconstruction of the past environment on highland Tibetan Plateau, China. Proceedings of the 1995 Nagoya IGBP-PAGES/ PEP-II Symposium
  