北京师范大学物理系 讲师，南京大学物理系 博士，研究方向：生物物理（蛋白质折叠）；凝聚态理论。1998年—2002年 南京大学物理系 学士。2002年—2007年 南京大学物理系 博士。2008年—2010年 美国物理科学与技术研究所 研究助理。2011年至今 北京师范大学物理系 讲师
。生物物理（蛋白质折叠）；凝聚态理论。主持国家自然科学基金青年项目，主持北京师范大学自主科研基金一般项目。D. Thirumalai, Zhenxing Liu, Edward P. O′Brien and Govardhan Reddy, Protein folding: from theory to practice, Curr. Opin. Struc. Biol。Govardhan Reddy, Zhenxing Liu and D. Thirumalai, Denaturant-dependent folding of GFP, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA ( PNAS )。Zhenxing Liu, Govardhan Reddy and D. Thirumalai, Theory of the molecular transfer model for proteins with applications to the folding of the src-SH3 domain, J. Phys. Chem。Zhenxing Liu, Govardhan Reddy, Edward P. O′Brien and D. Thirumalai, Collapse kinetics and chevron plots from simulations of denaturant-dependent folding of globular proteins, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA (PNAS)。Zhenxing Liu, Jie Chen and D. Thirumalai, On the accuracy of inferring energetic coupling between distant sites in protein families from evolutionary imprints: Illustrations using lattice model, Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics。Limin Wang, Zhenxing Liu, Weiyizhang Localization and scaling behavior of polariton-gap in Fibonacci and symmetric Fibonacci-class piezomagnetic superlattices, Journal of the physical society of Japan。Limin Wang, Weiyizhang, Zhenxing Liu, Properties of a unique type of critical state in the two–dimentional two-band Anderson lattice model in the presence of site-selective disorder, Journal of the physical society of Japan 77。Zhenxing Liu, Weiyi Zhang, Bifurcation in band-gap structures and extended states of piezoelectric Thue-Morse superlattices, Physical Review B 75。Zhenxing Liu, Limin Wang, Hui He, Weiyi Zhang Trifurcation of band-gap structure and coexistence of lattice-like states and critical states in piezoelectric period-doubling superlattices, European Physical Journal B 59。Zhenxing Liu, Weiyi Zhang, Study of phonon-polaritons in piezomagnetic superlattices using a generalized transfer matrix method, Journal of Physics: Condensed Matter。Zhenxing Liu, Weiyi Zhang, Multiband polaritonic filter made of piezoelectric superlattices, Physics Letters A。Zhenxing Liu, Weiyi Zhang, Scaling and localization of polaritonic states in piezoelectric Fibonacci superlattices, Physical Review B 72。Weiyi Zhang, Zhenxing Liu, Zhenlin Wang Band structures and transmission spectra of piezoelectric superlattices, Physical Review B 71
。2012年物理系第三届青年教师教学基本功比赛：一等奖。2012年北京师范大学第十三届青年教师教学基本功比赛：一等奖、最佳教案奖、最受学生欢迎奖
。马里兰大学   